2014 0724, Thu
==============================
Speak : Kang, Kim

Compcert theorems
> ∀B, S ⇓ B ⇐⇒ C ⇓ B (1)

> S safe=⇒(∀B, C⇓B=⇒S⇓B) (2)

> ∀B∈/Wrong, S⇓B=⇒C⇓B (3)

> S|=Spec =⇒ C|=Spec (4)

> S safe =⇒ C safe (5)

---

deterministic?

```sh
int x; y = x > 0 ? 2 : 1;
//x = 2 or 1 (not deterministic)
//there is some better way to expose nondeterminism but
here, just this fact is important
```
nondeterministic -> any possible result is OK.

compcert (2)
```sh
S safe => All B, T|B -> S|B
```
is equivalent to
```sh
All B, T|B -> S|B
```
(with *error* being defined as follows in semantic )
```sh
All B, S|B
```

---


(2) is generally approved notation.

```sh
(3) => (2)
```
Proof.
- languages are deterministic
- All B, S|B -> T|B
- T|B
- ========================
- Goal : S|B

 if B' s.t. S|B' exists (our semantic, always exists)

 then T|B' (by 2)

 determinsitc, T|B => B = B'

 S|B

Qed.

> In the CompCert experiment and the remainder of this paper, we focus on source and target languages that are deterministic (programs change their behaviors only in response to different inputs but not because of internal choices) and on execution environments that are deterministic as well (the inputs given to the programs are uniquely determined by their previous outputs). Under these conditions, there exists exactly one behavior B such that S ⇓ B, and simi- larly for C. In this case, it is easy to prove that property (2) is equivalent to (3)



*important* : proving (3) is generally easier.

> S ---(forward)-> T

> S <-(backward)- T


generally, forward is easier.
forward first, backward next.

However, we may not use (3), because our semantics will not be deterministic.


Anyway, if some case is certainly deterministic, we may use this idea to use forward reasoning.

---



> ∀S,C, Comp(S) = OK(C) =⇒ S ≈ C (6)

> ∀S,C, Validate(S,C)=true=⇒S≈C (7)

spec.

refinement : target's behavior is subset of source's behavior.

> Instead, the compiler is complemented by a validator:
a boolean-valued function Validate(S, C) that verifies the property
S ≈ C a posteriori.
If Comp(S) = OK(C) and Validate(S,C) = true,
the compiled code C is deemed trustworthy."



Proof-carrying code and certifying compilers

PCC : hint

V(S,T,h) instead of V(S,T)



verified compiler approach : we should make LLVM again on the coq.

validator : compiler itself goes same.

generally, validator method is easier than verified compiler approach.

like P-NP, it is easier to validate an answer than proving whole generation step.

---

we want to believe parsing, AST (LLVM -> coq step)

*TCB* : trusted computing base

lesser TCB is better.

doing coq : believing coq's baes system ... OCaml, X86, blah blah...

it is not comparable in sense of size.

---

Section 3

multithread, nondeterminism, blah blah.

compcert : mainly used for safety critical && not performance important system, such as airplane.


proving cost!!
defining many many intermediate languages 

llvm ~= RTL

Goal : clang (llvm) users should use our validator.


```sh
x = undef
y = x xor x
print y
```

now in llvm, y can be anything.. and we cannot take it!

in C standard, there is not many mention about here.


---

performance?
clang -O1
compcert (27% slower)


CLang -O1   : 100%
      -O0.5 : 102%
      CCert : 127%

Compcert's benchmark program (geometric mean)

---


4.3

showing refinement
simulation

```sh
//Program 1
a = f();
b = a+1;
c = b+2;
print c
```

=>

```sh
//Program 2
a = f();
b = a+1;
c = a+3;
print c
```

```sh
line: invariant
0-1 : x
1-2 : a_l = a_r
2-3 : a_l = a_r, b_l = a_l+1
3-4 : c_l = c_r
4-  : x
```

---

simulation!
```sh 
s ~ t  /\
(t -> t') =>
(exists s', s->s' /\ s' ~ t')
```
which means, simulation => refinement

(target's behavior is soure's subset. target -> exists source)

metatheoritic

many technical challenges here (concurrency?)

compositional reasoning : Prof Hur's post-doc.

---

Q (Song) : version ?
we may chase recent LLVM stable version...

submit paper -> update to recent, fix it and work on -> ...

coq's version is also important... 

coq's update may break existing script.

github style, master, branch, blah...

